[CRYING]
TOM:
Oh, I know, I know.
COOPER: I Wish there was something
I could say to stop your tears.
[m1
To take away the pain of losing her,
but I can't.
What I can do is remind you
of how lucky we were...
...to have had Elizabeth in our lives.
MAN:
I need to see some ID.
COOPER:
What does the Lord ask of us?
To do justice, love mercy...
...and walk humbly with our God.
Reddington's guys?
Yeah. Not that I asked them to be here.
They're here for her protection.
Well, I don't want Reddington or his goons
to be any part of her life.
[BABY COOING]
I know. Please tell me
you know how to swaddle a baby.
I hear bourbon works.
COOPER:
Did Elizabeth do justice?
She came into our lives
under extraordinary circumstances...
...that few agents could hold up under.
But she did more than hold up.
She thrived.
You look nice.
COOPER: She withstood scrutiny
from her peers...
...false accusations
from her government...
...and helped take down
some of the worst criminals...
...this country has ever known.
Agent Ressler, it's time.
MAN 1 [ON RECORDING]: Code red.
Code red. All units, please respond.
We are under heavy ﬁre.
Who the hell are these guys?
We can't be late.
We gotta find them.
ARAM:
Yeah, and we will.
Just not now. We have to go.
COOPER:
Did she love mercy?
I've never met anyone more forgiving.
Elizabeth followed her heart.
And against all odds...
...it led her back to the man she loved.
Did she walk humbly with her God?
[CHUCKLES]
I'll never forget the day I met her.
It was her first day on the job.
She had been offered an opportunity
that most agents...
...wait a lifetime to get.
"Why me?" she asked.
"I'm nobody special."
I think we all know different.
She was humble, self-effacing...
...and very, very special.
Like all of you...
...l'm sad and angry.
Like you also...
...l'm also very blessed
to have known Eliz--
So as we leave here today...
...let's celebrate.
The last few days,
many have come up to me...
...and they've said,
"We are so sorry for your loss."
But we haven't lost Elizabeth.
We know exactly where she is.
[m1
J‘ Poor old granddad J‘
J‘ I laughed at all his words J‘
J‘ I thought he was a bitter man J“
J‘ He spoke of women '3 ways J“
J‘ They'll trap you, then they use you
Before you even know J‘
J‘ For love is blind
And you're far too kind J‘
J‘ Don 't ever let it show J‘
J‘ I wish that I knew what I know now
When I was younger J‘
J‘ I wish that I knew what I know now J‘
-I can't believe Reddington didn't come.
RESSLER: I can.
He knows this is his fault.
Hey, Aram, that download,
how far along are you--?
Don'tjudge. I'm just....
I'm just super stressed out.
RESSLER: You're kidding me, right?
-lt's legal in DC.
[SIGHS]
| feel horrible.
Well, you should. It's a funeral.
| feel so badly for Tom.
Yeah, I keep thinking maybe there's
something we should do for him.
"We"?
J‘ Ooh, la, la J‘
J‘ Ooh, la, la, la, la
Amen J‘J‘
MINISTER: Lead us not into temptation,
but deliver us from evil.
For thine is the kingdom,
the power and the glory forever.
-Amen.
ALL:
Amen.
ARAM:
Wait. I need to say something.
When she shall die...
...take her and cut her out
in little stars...
...and she will make the face of heaven
so fine...
...that all the world
will be in love with night...
...and pay no worship
to the garish sun.
Romeo and Juliet.
Agent Keen loved Shakespeare.
And Dr. Seuss.
She loved dim sum and Beyoncé...
...and those little wooden foot massagers
that go under your desk.
I know the things she loved
because we were friends...
...even though
I called her "Agent Keen."
That was out of the respect
I had for her.
Her friends also called her "Liz."
[SOBBING]
I miss you, Liz. Just....
Okay. Thank you.
[m1
[KNOCKING]
What are you doing here?
Your granddaughter...
...she's....
I'm sorry.
[m1
We are not standing down.
Don't give me protocol
about investigating a colleague's death.
Then how about you're too close,
too emotional and too raw...
...to come within a mile...
...of doing a good job
finding who attacked Keen's wedding.
-We have to do something.
-You do. Find Reddington.
-He'|l turn up. He always does.
-No, he always did because of Keen.
His cooperation was predicated on her.
Now that she's gone, will he continue?
-I don't have a clue.
-You need to get one.
We made a deal with
the most wanted man in America.
It'd be nice to know
if he plans to honor it.
-And Keen?
-You worry about Reddington.
We've assigned top agents
to her case.
-Who?
-Top agents.
Come on,
they really expect us to stand down?
COOPER:
Yeah. That's not happening.
Where are we?
Whoever was after Agent Keen
hacked into a telecom hub.
The servers were sifting data
intercepted from the fiber optic cables.
Sending it where?
ARAM: I don't know. Once they realized
we figured out what they were doing...
...they severed all communications.
We know what they were looking for:
Keen.
They were watching her.
ARAM: Right, yes, watching and listening
through private security cameras...
...traffic cams.
Someone was watching the attack
on the church. In real time.
She never stood a chance.
They were following her the whole time.
You have no idea where this information
was being sent, who was tracking her?
I'm tracing the packet routes,
but it's gonna take time.
What I do know is that...
...Agent Keen wasn't the only person
they were monitoring.
They were intercepting
cell and CCTV footage...
...out of the Warwick Hotel in Midtown,
along with voice and Internet traffic...
...out of something called
the Global Financial Council.
-How is that connected to Keen?
-I don't know. It's....
There's so many pieces
to sort through, it's....
This is the sort of thing Mr. Reddington
would just see without even blinking.
RAYMOND: Thank you.
-Mm-hm.
As soon as the name Masha Rostova
hit the 24-hour news cycle...
...they came for her.
I thought I could...
...protect her.
I did protect her.
All these years,
I've anticipated almost every threat.
But this one....
A medical complication in childbirth.
Masha had a child?
RAYMOND:
A girl.
She was born prematurely,
but she's expected to be fine.
Well, that's wonderful.
I came here to tell you that.
Sure. I'm sure you did.
It's right there on your desk calendar.
Okay, so we tuck, then we fold...
...from the bottom.
Tuck, fold....
Wrap-- I don't know.
You know,
I know what you're thinking.
You're thinking,
"Dad, you suck at this."
But I'm telling you...
...I can do this.
I think.
ARAM: Okay, I've got something.
One of the cell phones being tapped...
...belongs to an executive assistant
named Amanda Bigelow.
The other to an Anthony Mayhew,
a chauffeur.
Both work for an executive...
...who's at our third reference,
the Warwick Hotel in New York...
...to speak at a conference
held by reference point number four:
-The Global Financial Council.
-Common denominator is the executive.
Benjamin Stalder. President
of the Energy Consortium Group.
SAMAR: Ifthe people who monitored Liz
are monitoring him...
...he could be the key
to finding Liz's killers.
COOPER:
Or he could be their next target.
RESSLER:
Hey.
-What the hell are you doing?
-What?
You're clearing her out
like she was evicted from a rental.
Have some respect.
Standard procedure is to secure
the effects of a terminated party.
Get out, now.
-Hey, you two, out, now.
COOPER: Donald.
You believe this?
They're just doing theirjob.
Why don't you take a break.
I'm gonna collect
Agent Keen's effects myself.
Vultures.
[m1
[PIANO PLAYING NOTES]
I'd imagine it to be a challenge
playing Rachmaninoff's...
..."C-sharp Minor Prelude"
without the benefit of C-sharp.
It would be...
...if I played anymore.
Why are you still here?
I'm not entirely sure I know.
-Sympathy?
-Excuse me?
Are you waiting for my sympathy?
Maybe a hug.
RAYMOND:
God, no.
Good. Because you wouldn't
find that here anyway.
I just needed to be someplace...
...quiet.
Well, I wasn't expecting you.
I have to go to town for groceries.
I'm sorry for the intrusion.
Let me give you some money, please.
Would you pick up a single malt,
preferably from the Highlands?
But not Islay. The water there
tastes like seaweed and iodine.
[DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES]
[m1
J‘ Traveling through the graveyard
With a suitcase full of sparks J‘
J‘ Honey, I’m just trying
To ﬁnd my way to you J‘
J‘ Lit up every campﬁre
I found out in the dark J‘
J‘ All the countless days
Along the sea of blue J“
J‘ Learned the language
Of the mockingbird J‘
J‘ She took and twisted all my words J‘
J‘ Yeah, I’m just trying
To ﬁnd my way to you J‘
J‘ And I’ll meet you in the graveyard
With the winter trees and stars J‘J‘
MAN: What can you tell me about
the mother's family medical history?
Nothing. Neither could she.
They died when she was young.
MAN:
What about Elizabeth herself?
-Any cancer, heart disease, diabetes?
-NO.
Look”.
...doctor, is something wrong
with my baby?
Agnes is just fine.
But the more genetic blanks
I can fill in the charts...
...the better I know what to screen for.
What about your family?
More blanks.
I never knew my parents either.
I think that's what made
Liz and I work.
You know, it was the first time
either of us felt like...
...family. Excuse me.
[CELL PHONE RINGS]
-COOper.
-It's Tom Keen.
Tom. I'm glad you called. I just collected
a box Of personal things from Liz's office.
All right, I'll come pick them up now.
Look, maybe I could...
...work on the case while I'm there
because I'm....
-I'm useless here.
-We have things under control.
NO, see, that's the problem. All right?
The situation doesn't call for control.
The only way we 're gonna
ﬁnd the bastards...
-...whO came for Liz is sink tO their level.
-Tom, stop.
Just be with your child.
We have a solid lead
and we're working it now.
I don't care how well the stock
was doing before, it's imploding now.
It's a classic pump and dump.
We need tO liquidate immediately.
[PHONE RINGING]
Wait, front desk is calling,
I think my driver's here.
I gotta head over to the conference.
Dump that stock, Lawrence.
[PHONE CONTINUES RINGING]
Stalder's not answering.
Keep trying the room.
We're almost there, but I need
hotel security to find and secure him.
Agent, I have eyes on Mr. Stalder
approaching the elevator.
He's got two of his men with him...
...and I see his driver
here in the lobby. He's good.
Unicorn is at the elevators.
Roger that.
We are 15 seconds from location.
Asset is on site...
...ready for extraction.
[ELEVATOR DINGS]
-Agent Navabi. Where's Stalder?
-Elevator 2. Landing any second.
Come on, come on.
GO.
-What floor did it stop on?
-Seven.
-And where do those stairs lead?
-West alley service entrance.
RESSLER: All right, let me take the alley.
-Okay.
[m1
[GRUNTING]
Unh!
FBI, freeze! On the ground.
On the ground no--
ROWAN:
Abort! We got FBI! GO! GO, go!
[TIRES SCREECHING]
[m1
You have no right
tO go through her things.
And that's my coat.
I was just imagining young Katarina...
...covered in glitter.
As an adult, it's easy to dismiss
this stuff as girlish frivolity.
You forget the wonder it creates,
the light captured...
...secret wishes evoked.
It renders
even the darkest days sparkly.
Never underestimate
the power Of glitter.
Stop it.
Stop what?
Stop torturing me.
That was never my intention.
Then what are you doing out here?
These boxes are all I have.
All I have left Of my daughter.
I'm sorry, Dom. I understand.
NO, you don't.
You don't understand.
You think because Masha is dead...
...that now you can understand me?
You can share my misery?
I feel bereft, just like you.
NO, notjust like me.
She's gone because of choices
you made for both Of them.
First Katarina and then Masha.
As far as I'm concerned,
you killed my entire family.
NO, you're not like me.
COOPER:
Nez Rowan?
You're sure it was her?
I had a pretty good angle on her face...
...as she cracked me
with the butt Of her weapon. It's her.
RESSLER:
How is that possible?
We had her dead to rights
for armed robbery of a nuclear facility...
...conspiracy tO kidnap...
-...accessory tO murder.
-| signed the papers for her transfer...
-...tO Fort Meade tO await trial.
-Why isn't she rotting in a cell?
-|'|| have Aram look into it.
-Aram is taking a personal day today.
He's not dealing
with Liz's death very well.
He's not alone.
I'll look into the Rowan situation myself.
She's working with the same team
of mercs who tried to abduct Keen.
Rowan's extraction team outside the hotel,
they wore the exact same equipment.
Okay, let's find out from Mr. Stalder...
...why they're after him
and how he connects to Liz.
I run the Energy Consortium Group.
We advise governments
and private sector clients...
...on energy
and economic business models.
I recommend who gets billion-dollar
contracts and who doesn't.
That's why you travel
with such a heavy security contingent?
Yup, that's right.
I've received plenty Of death threats
over the years.
We'll need any record you have
and a client list.
-Of course.
SAMAR: Anything unusual happen today?
Before the abduction?
NO. I never left the suite.
I was working on my speech
for the Global Financial Council.
Any reason why someone
would wanna stop that speech?
NO. It was just a general
state-of—the-industry address.
Mr. Stalder, do you have any connection
with Elizabeth Keen?
The fugitive, right?
NO, only what I hear in the news.
Whatever happened to her, anyway?
That's not where the capers go.
-Dom.
-Move.
You still have family.
Who? The baby?
I won't live long enough
tO see her out of nappies.
If I'm allowed to see her at all.
I had to make do
with photographs of Masha.
Did you even tell her about me?
I couldn't.
-You know how complicated it was.
-There was nothing complicated about it.
We had to back out of Masha's life
tO keep her safe...
...after you made a colossal mess
of everything.
Only you couldn't stay
well enough away.
Now you come tO my house
with this sorry tale of loss...
...like you're the only one
affected by this.
You're the only one
whose feelings matter.
Well, guess what,
Masha was my granddaughter.
And now she's dead
without even knowing I existed.
All my sacrifices shot tO hell.
I could've spent the last 30 years
just being her grandfather.
You selfish prick.
-She had your temper.
-Heh, heh.
I loved that girl enough to let her go...
...which is more than you can say.
[m1
My Office send you what you wanted?
Yes. We have your lists.
We're running them down now.
We need tO go over your abduction.
STALDER:
We've been over it six times.
I can't stay here.
I have to fly to Dubai tonight.
Leaving now would be a huge mistake.
You're in immediate danger.
My firm contracts
with the best security teams.
Now that we're aware of the threat...
...I am confident
in their ability tO keep me safe.
Now, I'm sorry, but I have to go.
COOPER: Know who had Rowan released
from military custody three days ago?
Oh, honey, you've come to a goat's house
looking for wool.
I warned you, Harold. Stand down.
You know who did it.
-Have you found Reddington?
-Damn it.
Nez Rowan was part Of a shadow army
that led tO the death Of Agent Keen.
Rowan was the best lead we have.
Who let her go free?
I don't know. It's over my head.
What I can tell you is that there are
certain US. government missions...
...covert, dangerous, necessary...
...and they require the expertise
of an independent organization.
Don't patronize me. Those people
got one of my best agents killed...
...and you expect me to walk away.
How can I justify that?
I know full well you look the other way
when you need tO.
Because working
with an international criminal...
...enables you
tO bring good to the world.
I can't look the other way, not this time.
They took someone I love.
Best thing you can do for all Of us
is locate Reddington...
...and find a way
tO keep him on your team.
[PHONE BEEPING]
[CELL PHONE VIBRATING]
Hold on.
-Yeah.
-You ready to roll in the mud?
I thought you'd never ask.
[KNOCKING]
Surprise.
Dembe.
Please don't be mad at him.
He understood how important this is...
...and you weren't answering his calls.
I never would have dropped by. It's rude.
-And I hate to be rude.
-What do you want, Aram?
You need to come back with me.
-Why?
-We're not getting anywhere...
...in the investigation
of Agent Keen's death.
We could use your help.
Harold Cooper's a very capable leader.
He'll sort it out.
It's more than that.
I can't work...
...the Post Office without Agent Keen.
Without you,
it's just a government building.
You gave me a speech
over an empty grave...
...about the foundational elements
in our lives.
People who form the brick
and mortar of who we are.
How, when they're suddenly not there,
we collapse into rubble.
How it was after Agent Keen
was almost killed by the Cabal.
But I saved her.
You looked into that empty grave
back then and said...
...you'd be staring at her
if it weren't for me.
Now I understand
why you have collapsed into rubble.
I do.
And I'm truly sorry.
But I'm here to collect on your debt.
You owe me.
So let's go.
TO pay...
...my debt to you...
...would require more than I possess.
I'm not coming back.
[m1
If Reddington's not coming back
for Keen...
...he's not coming back, period.
Okay, so what's our next move?
Aram, did you have any luck
with the basement servers?
Thought I'd figure out
where they routed their data...
...but couldn't find the end
of the proxy chain.
They have to be bouncing it Off some
kind Of hidden servers around the Earth.
Or hidden servers over the Earth.
I checked all the viable telecom satellites
in GEO and LEO orbit...
...but I didn't check the Offline ones.
-Off|ine satellites?
-There are thousands of unused...
...and decommissioned satellites
circling our heads. Space junk.
It's not enough that we litter the planet.
Okay, the challenge...
...is to figure out which ones they used.
Agent MOjtabai.
Welcome back.
Ugh.
Don't you dare.
-Ugh.
-Heh,heh,heh.
How do you drink this stuff?
We drank it with every meal
on the farm when I was a boy.
But we had cows,
and we made our own.
In the summers we made
buttermilk pops in the freezer.
Kept us all from passing out.
So buttermilk reminds you Of home.
I overheard your conversation
with the Arab boy.
He's from Delaware.
You won't be troubled again
with unexpected visitors.
I know how you value your privacy.
Why didn't you go with him?
What would be the point?
There's nothing I could do
that would matter.
Cry me a river, hm?
What the hell are you really doing here?
You gave me the news about Masha.
What do you want from me?
A way forward.
I can't live for long
with what I feel inside.
I don't see how anyone can.
You said it, chum.
Look around you. You call this living?
After I lost my daughter...
...I crawled...
Crawled into the wilderness...
...like a mortally wounded animal.
Get as far away from the pack
as I could...
...tO run out the clock,
run out the clock and die.
If you came for a survival manual,
you won't find it here.
And you, you've got one thing
I haven't had for a long time.
You've got a reason,
a reason to walk out that door.
Sounds like there
are honest people out there...
...whO are depending upon you.
[CHUCKLES]
GOd help them.
GOd help them. Ha, ha, ha.
Dom, you've always had a good reason
tO walk out the door.
ARAM:
I think I'm getting somewhere.
RESSLER:
Found the needle in the haystack?
I'm not looking for a needle.
We need the whole haystack.
-And if I'm right, it's the Artax Network.
-What is that?
An old telecom project tO provide data
tO every corner of the Earth...
...through a network Of 73 satellites.
The company went bankrupt
and the project was abandoned.
But the 73 satellites are still out there.
-You think our target is using them?
-Any way to confirm the network's active?
Well, I've just gained access
tO a relay station.
And I am about tO lock on
tO one Of the satellites.
If it's in use,
the data will be encrypted...
...but we will know if it's active.
Okay.
Here we go.
[BLEEPING]
COOPER: They have control
of the Artax satellite network.
And they used it to kill Liz.
All right,
can we use it to find them?
ARAM:
I was able to get a location...
...by examining the latency patterns
in the satellites.
They're being fed
to 2054 Pulaski Avenue.
Concrete panels with granite faces.
We've got no line Of sight inside.
Only one point of entry.
OPERATOR: HQ, this is Operator 4-6,
we have poachers at the Eagle's Nest.
Initiating the protocol.
[BEEPING]
[m1
They're in.
Other than Nez,
we can't put faces to any Of the mercs.
I scrubbed through
the Warwick's footage to find some.
Good job. What did you get?
Nothing. At least nO mercs.
But I did find this.
COOPER:
A shot of our victim.
-One hour before his abduction.
-Stalder tOId Ressler and Navabi...
...he never left his suite.
Was he lying or did he forget?
Well, that doesn't look like a woman...
...or a conversation
he'd have forgotten.
COOPER:
Who is she?
I don't know.
And we can't ask Stalder, I checked.
Hejust cleared U.S. airspace.
[m1
They're onto the 11th floor. GO.
Fifteen seconds and counting.
[BEEPING]
[AGENTS SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY]
All right, do a full vertical sweep.
They're somewhere in this building.
So much for evidence.
[m1
[CAMERA CLICKING]
[INAUDIBLE DIALOGUE]
[J‘J‘J‘]
[METRONOME CLICKING]
Raymond?
[CHUCKLES]
[CLICKING STOPS]
[PLAYING SOFT TUNE]
[J‘J‘J‘]
Thank you for having dinner with me.
-It was nice.
-Mm-hm.
You're welcome tO come inside.
NO.
Not tonight. But maybe we can have
dinner again tomorrow?
Yeah.
[J‘J‘J‘]
[COOING]
Shh. It's Okay.
[BABY COOING]
What did you say?
Come here.
I did it, I did it.
Igotyou.|gotyou.
We did it.
Yeah, we did.
[J‘J‘J‘]
-Tell me you found something useful.
-Depends.
I followed Panabaker to the airport where
she had a meeting with this woman.
COOPER: That's the woman
Stalder met at the hotel...
...an hour before
his attempted abduction.
Who's Stalder?
Benjamin Stalder, a high-powered
executive at an energy consortium.
Whoever was tracking Liz
was also going after him.
-Why?
-I don't know.
We let him go, but I'm getting
the distinct feeling that was a mistake.
Stalder's more involved
than he was letting on.
TOM: SO who is this woman?
-We don't know yet.
Hotel photo wasn't much to go on,
but with these new images...
...Aram should be able to locate her
in our databases.
Liz was convinced that her mother
tried to kidnap her.
Reddington said she died years ago,
but Liz didn't believe that...
...and neither do I.
I think we're staring
at Katarina Rostova.
[J‘J‘J‘]
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
Mr. Reddington.
I'm here to pay my debt to you, Aram.
You're back.
Strap on your bike helmet.
We're going to work.
[J‘J‘J‘]